Hello you fantastic go to people in this video we're going to make our first NPC for heist Meister.
We're gonna make a security camera okay.
So what is the security camera.
Well it's gonna be a most basic NPC.
What I mean by that.
It's gonna have no movement code.
Security cameras aren't going to wander around the level they gonna stay in one place and just rotate
left and right and we're just gonna use a simple animation node to make them drift this way.
Wait drift that way.
Wait.
Predictable movement there also to detect the player.
However we're not going to put player detection into the script in this video.
We're gonna leave that for the next video.
And probably the one after Ryan minutes.
But there's probably two sections so that I can cover enough depth so that you know what's going on
with the code.
OK let's get into it.
First we need to make a new scene.
I mean to use a 2D scene and I'm going to call this camera could call it security camera feel like I'm
calling it camera and what I'm going to do is I'm going to give this a sprite.
And if we look under graphics if got open here under PMG and on the tiles I've got lots of the tiles
from the sprite sheet separated out so we can use them.
I would be using this little TV thing as a camera.
Let me show what it looks like.
See that looks a bit like a camera.
However cameras rotate on the end of an arm.
So I don't do is actually make this an arm.
Why am I doing this.
I'm doing this because we're going to rotate the camera and leave the arm where it is right.
So let's make a child node of the camera.
And this one is gonna be a kinetic body 2D.
Why is it a cinematic body 2D.
Because at some point we're going to make this inherit a script and the script is going to inherit from
is going to be our character script.
Now if it's inheriting from template characters or G.D. it has to extend kinesthetic body 2D.
If I make this a rigid body or or basic node it won't be able to inherit from this script.
So little bit of future proofing I'm I make a kind of antibody 2D.
I won't name this camera body
and only that a sprite to and this Sprite is going to be tile.
Where did you go 536.
It looks pretty good.
Go to movement mode press W to do that and put you at the end there.
You know what I should hold shift while I'm doing that.
And yeah that's me the center.
And you know let's rotate you by pressing E and good.
I should probably have done that with the grid on let's just rotate you by 90 degrees okay.
That looks pretty solid.
Now the reason I've done it this way is if I were to do it just on the route camera load and rotate
it look what would happen
so I need to be rotating it around a pivot.
It's also worth noting that the rotation that I'm going to be using is this one here.
This is relative to its parent.
So if I change this rotation here to 12 degrees and then go to the camera body this rotation is at zero
because that's what it is immoral in relation to its parent.
If I put this at minus twelve that's what we get.
OK let's undo a couple times it's telling me I need the collision body.
Fine we'll give you a simple collision shape to.
I'm going to have to set that.
So you walk shape where a rectangle doesn't need you rectangle shape duty.
And I'm going to disable it.
We don't need it and let's hide it OK.
One more thing I do on add a torch.
So let's go back to our camera body and use instance a scene and just find our torch.
Great.
Can I just move that out pressing W. again.
Holly shift and the torch is live here.
Now what I'm not going to do is put any inclusion on the camera so it doesn't matter if the torch beam
is inside the camera.
I've also noticed little warning.
It seems that there's no texture on this torch.
Let's take a look and it looks like I did something very silly.
But if I go to the player scene and I look at this torch.
Yes what I've done is not set it on the route scene.
So let's put on a light map in here.
Light maps torch and offset on the X by 320 pixels.
Right.
Save that let's just leave that as it is.
Go back to our camera and it now has a torch.
A little hard to see but that's OK.
Can Save This under characters do you think we'll have another fold of NBC.
Let's get a hold of pieces and save it in there.
Awesome.
Now we need to do is bring it into the level to make sure that the light actually works.
Minimize the photos I'm not using and go to levels go to template level and let's just bring in a camera.
So I'm going to instance in camera add his little torch and I can rotate it using E and that works fine.
He also knows the lights are overlapping.
That's kind of nice.
I've also noticed that the camera itself is above the wall.
If I place it here in the same tree it'll fit through the floor.
So I need to be a little bit careful where I place this what I might do is just tweak where camera body
lives.
I'm just going to move it whoops no one's going to move it or rotate it to about here.
Save that.
And back to our template level as looking a little bit better isn't it.
So let's put you right on the edge of the wall so you look good.
And I could probably scale that down a bit when you think let's scale it down not torched I need you
camera.
OK camera body I'm going to change the size of your sprite your sprite is going to have a transform
of zero point five zero point five.
That too small I might be okay.
Let's put you at two point seventy five save you take a look at the level nope too vague it's going
to be point five five point five and I'll clearly need to change the arm let's get a transform scale.
Point 5.5.
Nice.
OK.
Now I mean look at the level looking more like a camera you can play with a skip by the sizing and all
the rest of it.
So if you run this level we have a very basic camera that we can look at and we cast shadows.
And this person would cast shadows if you can move them over there.
Great looking good.
Well we don't have any kind of rotation.
Let's go back to our camera and under camera body you know what let's bring in the sprites we know it
is armor sprites camera arm.
Now arm sprite his good arm sprite it is on the camera buddy let's add a new animation player would
play a little bit of animation plays before they are kind of awesome make a new track and I'm going
to call this camera rotation now I feel like a 12 second track is good zoom out just how control and
use the mouse wheel there or you can use this little sliding scale I'm going to put you on auto play
on load and on repeat and when you a new track so add track and score to a property track what are we
moving we're moving the entire camera body and what do we want to actually change what we want to change
its rotation degrees admittedly I didn't have to do it that way I could've gone into camera body transform
and just hit the key right rotation good reason right here now right here we have this 12 second animation
so what I'd like to do is issue you a little challenge I would like you to get the camera rotating left
and right over a few seconds and I would encourage you to put a gap here and let it rotate left wait
a few seconds rotate right wait a few seconds it pulls a video when you're happy Come on back and I'll
show you my solution
and welcome back.
It doesn't do is set rotation so let's put a rotation in let's set you to minus 30 and it's at this
point I realize I've done something very silly so let's put it back to zero for now what's going on
here.
Well here is my Sprite.
Here is my camera body.
I move the sprite not the camera body like a sprite to position is there.
Wrong wrong wrong.
Go back to camera body.
I'm going to move all children boom.
Now the camera body will rotate from here.
The origin.
I could have edited that out.
You know what.
It's such a common thing to do such common mistake with keeping in great.
So now let's put you at minus 30 key.
Okay I will put my snap out one second and two second key I think so let's move you to the same place
put a key in there.
Awesome.
All right.
So I need it if it stays for two seconds and then it moves to the Center for two seconds and then it
moves to the right over another two seconds so let's put you as positive 30 OK.
So what's it gonna look like.
We wait for two seconds.
We start slowly rotating.
Great.
Now I could have put it here but then it's going from minus 30 to positive 30 over two seconds.
I don't want that.
I want it to go to zero in two seconds.
It's positive to 30.
Stay there for two seconds
and then one two three four.
So let's take a look.
But to do that I'm touching to speed the animation up a bit.
So we'd have to stay for him evidence double speed
very nice.
OK.
But the speed back to one.
This movie your original camera position.
Now when I look at it in level I can see that it doesn't look quite right.
So I'm actually going to just tweak this a little bit more because the center is in the right place.
But look at it.
But the camera isn't so smooth the camera body too right here say that.
Take a look at the level that looks more realistic.
Let's run the scene great so it looks better but now my torches in the wrong place.
Easy fix back to camera.
Where's my torch.
Torches there transform and I'm just going to move you back to twenty eighteen.
Not gonna drag it because this is at an angle and I'm going to type in the number eighteen looks good
sixteen Yeah.
Okay.
Run the thing
wrong scene.
Okay let's go back to the level and run that scene
and we have an actual camera and it looks like an actual camera and the actual sprite is still a little
bit big I could probably lower that a bit more but I'm quite happy with that.
One more tip I'd like to do inside template level I'm going to make a new simple note just a base note.
I'm gonna call this camera's and I'm going to put this camera inside that.
And the reason to do this is now I can just add a bunch of new cameras and then look at them and I need
to tidy up the scenery when I've done so along here.
You know let's rotate you by this much because we're using this arm.
Remember we're calculating the rotation from its parent.
If we were rotating from the camera not from the camera body when I moved it all these cameras would
snap to that default position.
The moment the animation started.
So by not doing that we can now have our cameras facing us different ways.
Let's run the scene and we're starting to have an exciting little stealth game where we have any detection
in yet and we have this character who's not moving has a lot more light than I'd like but look oval
overlapping light beings dynamic shadows lots of drama around torch which we probably won't use but
the gods certainly will I'm very happy with that.
Is this a blind spot.
I can't see me.
Yeah I think it's a great place to stop.
So let's stop here in this video.
We've created a brand new NPC we've looked at rotating the camera and making sure that we're not using
the global rotation and we've paved the way for player detection.
And I think that's a really good place to stop.
Excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.